A new non volatile storage system (#77930)
zephyrproject-rtos/zephyr: doc/services/storage/zms/zms.rst

.. _zms_api:

Zephyr Memory Storage (ZMS)
###########################

> Zephyr Memory Storage is a new key/value storage system that is designed to work with all types

Reviewer: hmm. The type of the key is the first thing I want to know when learning about a storage system :)

> of non-volatile technologies. It supports classical on-chip NOR flash as well as new technologies

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
of non-volatile storage technologies. It supports classical on-chip NOR flash as well as new technologies
```

> like RRAM and MRAM that do not require a separate erase operation at all.
> Data for these devices can be overwritten directly at any time.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
like RRAM and MRAM that do not require a separate erase operation at all, that is, 
data on these type of devices can be overwritten directly at any time.
```

   :header-rows: 1

   * - Sector 0 (closed)
     - Sector 1 (open)
     - Sector 2 (empty)
   * - Data_a0
     - Data_b0
     - Data_c0
   * - Data_a1
     - Data_b1
     - Data_c1
   * - Data_a2
     - Data_b2
     - Data_c2
   * - GC_done
     -    .
     -    .
   * -    .
     -    .
     -    .
   * -    .
     -    .
     -    .
   * -    .
     - ATE_b2
     - ATE_c2
   * - ATE_a2
     - ATE_b1
     - ATE_c1
   * - ATE_a1
     - ATE_b0
     - ATE_c0
   * - ATE_a0
     - GC_done
     - GC_done
   * - Close (cyc=1)
     - Close (cyc=1)
     - Close (cyc=1)
   * - Empty (cyc=1)
     - Empty (cyc=2)
     - Empty (cyc=2)

Definition of each element in the sector
========================================

``Empty ATE:`` is written when erasing a sector (last position of the sector).

``Close ATE:`` is written when closing a sector (second to last position of the sector).

``GC_done ATE:`` is written to indicate that the next sector has been already garbage
collected. This ATE could be in any position of the sector.

``ATE:`` are entries that contain an ID and describe where the data is stored, its size and
its crc32

``Data:`` is the actual value associated to the ATE ID

> How does ZMS work ?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
How does ZMS work?
```

*******************

Mounting the Storage system
===========================

Mounting the storage starts by getting the flash parameters, checking that the file system
properties are correct (sector_size, sector_count ...) then calling the zms_init function to
make the storage ready.

To mount the NVS filesystem some elements in the zms_fs structure must be initialized.

.. code-block:: c

	struct zms_fs {
		/** File system offset in flash **/
		off_t offset;

		/** Storage system is split into sectors, each sector size must be multiple of
		 * erase-blocks if the device has erase capabilities
		 */
		uint32_t sector_size;
		/** Number of sectors in the file system */
		uint32_t sector_count;

		/** Flash device runtime structure */
		const struct device *flash_device;
	};

> Initialization of ZMS

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Initialization
```

=====================

> As the ZMS has a fast-forward write mechanism, we must find the last sector and the last pointer

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As ZMS has a fast-forward write mechanism, we must find the last sector and the last pointer
```

of the entry where it stopped the last time.
It must look for a closed sector followed by an open one, then within the open sector, it finds
(recover) the last written ATE (Allocation Table Entry).
After that, it checks that the sector after this one is empty, or it will erase it.

> ZMS ID/data write

Author: I will move it to the doxygen documentation

> ZMS ID/data write

Author: @Damian-Nordic Actually looking again at this part it doesn't describe how the functions are called but I tried to describe it from a behavioral perspective.
I think it is important to keep the behavior (how reads and writes work in ZMS) in this document
I removed though the "get data length" part as it is similar to the doxygen documentation

> ZMS ID/data write

Reviewer: My point is that Doxygen is by far more likely to be updated when there are code changes made than a separate documentation (about the contents of which new contributors may not even know) so it's better not to duplicate the API description. By it's up to you.

If we must perform a write, then an ATE and Data (if not a delete) are written in the sector.
If the sector is full (cannot hold the current data + ATE) we have to move to the next sector,
garbage collect the sector after the newly opened one then erase it.
Data size that is smaller or equal to 8 bytes are written within the ATE.

ZMS ID/data read (with history)
===============================

By default it looks for the last data with the same ID and retrieves its data. it returns as well
the number of bytes that were read.
If history count is provided that is different than 0, older data with same ID is retrieved.

ZMS get data length
===================

Given an ID ZMS will return the size of the last data that was found with the same ID

ZMS free space calculation
==========================

ZMS can also return the free space remaining in the partition.
However, this operation is very time consuming and needs to browse all valid ATEs in all sectors
of the partition and for each valid ATE try to find if an older one exist.
We do not recommend applications to use this function very often at runtime as it could slow
very much the calling thread

> ZMS how does the cycle counter works ?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The cycle counter
```

======================================

Each sector has a lead cycle counter which is a uin8_t that is used to validate all the other
ATEs.
The lead cycle counter is stored in the empty ATE.
To become valid, an ATE must have the same cycle counter as the one stored in the empty ATE.
Each time an ATE is moved from a sector to another it must get the cycle counter of the
destination sector.
To erase a sector, the cycle counter of the empty ATE is incremented and a single write of the
empty ATE is done.
All the ATEs in that sector become invalid.

> ZMS how to close a sector

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Closing sectors
```

=========================

To close a sector a close ATE is added at the end of the sector and it must have the same cycle
counter as the empty ATE.
When closing a sector, all the remaining space that has not been used is filled with garbage data
to avoid having old ATEs with a valid cycle counter.

> ZMS triggering Garbage collector

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Triggering garbage collection
```

================================

Some applications need to make sure that storage writes have a maximum defined latency.
When calling a ZMS write, the current sector could be almost full and we need to trigger the GC
to switch to the next sector.
This operation is time consuming and it will cause some applications to not meet their real time
constraints.
ZMS adds an API for the application to get the current remaining free space in a sector.
The application could then decide when needed to switch to the next sector if the current one is
almost full and of course it will trigger the garbage collection on the next sector.
This will guarantee the application that the next write won't trigger the garbage collection.

> ZMS structure of ATE (Allocation Table Entries)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
ATE (Allocation Table Entry) structure
```

===============================================

An entry has 16 bytes divided between these variables :

> .. code-block:: c

Author: @Damian-Nordic only zephyr/include folder is included in the doxygen Documentation.
I think that describing the structure of the ATE (private structure) in the documentation is useful for users

	struct zms_ate {
		uint8_t crc8;      /* crc8 check of the entry */
		uint8_t cycle_cnt; /* cycle counter for non erasable devices */
		uint32_t id;       /* data id */
		uint16_t len;      /* data len within sector */
		union {
			uint8_t data[8]; /* used to store small size data */
			struct {
				uint32_t offset; /* data offset within sector */
				union {
					uint32_t data_crc; /* crc for data */
					uint32_t metadata; /* Used to store metadata information
							    * such as storage version.
							    */
				};
			};
		};
	} __packed;

.. note:: The data CRC is checked only when the whole data of the element is read.
   The data CRC is not checked for a partial read, as it is computed for the complete set of data.

.. note:: Enabling the data CRC feature on a previously existing ZMS content without
   data CRC will make all existing data invalid.

.. _free-space:

> How much space is available for Key/value pairs

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Available space for user data (key-value pairs)
```

***********************************************

For both scenarios ZMS should have always an empty sector to be able to perform the garbage
collection.
So if we suppose that 4 sectors exist in a partition, ZMS will only use 3 sectors to store
Key/value pairs and keep always one (rotating sector) empty to be able to launch GC.

.. note:: The maximum single data length that could be written at once in a sector is 64K
   (This could change in future versions of ZMS)

> Data <= 8 bytes

Reviewer 2: Small data values

===============

> For small sized value (< 8 bytes), the data is stored within the entry (ATE) itself and no data

Reviewer 2: values

is written at the top of the sector.
ZMS has an entry size of 16 bytes which means that the free space in a partition to store data
is computed in this scenario as ::

(NUM_SECTORS - 1) * (SECTOR_SIZE - (5 * ATE_SIZE)) / 2

Where:

``NUM_SECTOR:`` Total number of sectors

``SECTOR_SIZE:`` Size of the sector

``ATE_SIZE:`` 16 bytes

``(5 * ATE_SIZE):`` Reserved ATEs for header and delete items

For example for 4 sectors of 1024 bytes, free space for data is 3 * (944)/2 = 1416 bytes.

> Data > 8 bytes

Reviewer 2: Large data values

==============

Data is stored separately at the top of the sector.
In this case it is hard to estimate the free available space as this depends on the size of
the data. But we can take into account that for N bytes of data (N > 8 bytes) an additional
16 bytes of ATE must be added at the bottom of the sector.

Let's take an example:

For a partition that has 4 sectors of 1024 bytes and for data size of 64 bytes.
Only 3 sectors are available for writes with a capacity of 944 bytes each.
Each Key/value pair needs an extra 16 bytes for ATE which makes it possible to store 11 pairs
in each sectors (944 / 80).
Total data that could be stored in this partition for this case is 11 * 3 * 64 = 2112 bytes

.. _wear-leveling:

> ZMS wear leveling feature

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Wear leveling
```

Using storage systems that rely on an erase-value (NVS as an example) will need to emulate the
erase with write operations. This will cause a significant decrease in the life expectancy of
these devices and will cause more delays for write operations and for initialization.
ZMS introduces a cycle count mechanism that avoids emulating erase operation for these devices.
It also guarantees that every memory location is written only once for each cycle of sector write.

As an example, to erase a 4096 bytes sector on a non erasable device using NVS, 256 flash writes
must be performed (supposing that write-block-size=16 bytes), while using ZMS only 1 write of
16 bytes is needed. This operation is 256 times faster in this case.

Garbage collection operation is also adding some writes to the memory cell life expectancy as it
is moving some blocks from one sector to another.
To make the garbage collector not affect the life expectancy of the device it is recommended
to dimension correctly the partition size. Its size should be the double of the maximum size of
data (including extra headers) that could be written in the storage.

See :ref:`free-space`.

> How to compute device lifetime

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Device lifetime calculation
```

collector in this case.
For storage devices that could be written 20000 times, the storage will last about
4.720.000 minutes (~9 years).

To make a more general formula we must first compute the effective used size in ZMS by our
typical set of data.
For id/data pair with data <= 8 bytes, effective_size is 16 bytes
For id/data pair with data > 8 bytes, effective_size is 16 bytes + sizeof(data)
Let's suppose that total_effective_size is the total size of the set of data that is written in
the storage and that the partition is well dimensioned (double of the effective size) to avoid
having the garbage collector moving blocks all the time.

The expected life of the device in minutes is computed as ::

(SECTOR_EFFECTIVE_SIZE * SECTOR_NUMBER * MAX_NUM_WRITES) / (TOTAL_EFFECTIVE_SIZE * WR_MIN)

Where:

``SECTOR_EFFECTIVE_SIZE``: is the size sector - header_size(80 bytes)

``SECTOR_NUMBER``: is the number of sectors

``MAX_NUM_WRITES``: is the life expectancy of the storage device in number of writes

``TOTAL_EFFECTIVE_SIZE``: Total effective size of the set of written data

``WR_MIN``: Number of writes of the set of data per minute

> ZMS Features

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion 
Features
```

************
ZMS has introduced many features compared to existing storage system like NVS and will evolve
from its initial version to include more features that satisfies new technologies requirements
such as low latency and bigger storage space.

> Existing features

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Current features
```

=================

> Version1

Reviewer 2: Is the version present in the on-disk format?

Author: Yes there is a field in the header's metadata for that

--------
- Supports non erasable devices (only one write operation to erase a sector)
- Supports larger partition size and sector size (64 bits address space)
- Supports larger IDs (32 bits) to store ID/Value pairs
- Small sized data ( <= 8 bytes) are stored in the ATE itself
- Built-in Data CRC32 (included in the ATE)
- Versionning of ZMS (to handle future evolution)

> - Supports larger write-block-size (Only for platforms that need this)

Author: will fix that

> - Enables customization of sector count (Still under experimentation)

Author: This will be removed now from ZMS, I will remove this line

> Future Extensions

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Future features
```

=================

- Add multiple format ATE support to be able to use ZMS with different ATE formats that satisfies
  requirements from application
- Add the possibility to skip garbage collector for some application usage where ID/value pairs
  are written periodically and do not exceed half of the partition size (ther is always an old
  entry with the same ID).
- Divide IDs into namespaces and allocate IDs on demand from application to handle collisions
  between IDs used by different subsystems or samples.
- Add the possibility to retrieve the wear out value of the device based on the cycle count value
- Add a recovery function that can recover a storage partition if something went wrong
- Add a library/application to allow migration from NVS entries to ZMS entries
- Add the possibility to force formatting the storage partition to the ZMS format if something
  went wrong when mounting the storage.

> ZMS vs NVS, what should I choose ?

Reviewer 2: ZMS and other storage systems in Zephyr

==================================

> 

Reviewer 2: This section describes ZMS in the wider context of storage systems in Zephyr (not full filesystems, but simpler, non-hierarchical ones).
Today Zephyr includes at least two other systems that are somewhat comparable in scope and functionality: :ref:`NVS <nvs_api>` and :ref:`FCB <fcb_api>`.
Which one to use in your application will depend on your needs and the hardware you are using, and this section provides information to help make a choice.

- If you are using a non erasable technology device like RRAM or MRAM, **ZMS** is definitely the
  best fit for your storage subsystem as it is designed very well to avoid emulating erase for
  these devices and replace it by a single write call.
- For devices with large write_block_size and/or needs a sector size that is different than the
  classical flash page size (equal to erase_block_size), **ZMS** is also the best fit as there is
  the possibility to customize these parameters and add the support of these devices in ZMS.
- For classical flash technology devices, **NVS** is recommended as it has low footprint (smaller
  ATEs and smaller header ATEs). Erasing flash in NVS is also very fast and do not require an
  additional write operation compared to ZMS.
  For these devices, NVS reads/writes will be faster as well than ZMS as it has smaller ATE size.
- If your application needs more than 64K IDs for storage, **ZMS** is recommended here as it
  has a 32-bit ID field.

> 

Reviewer 2: Please use :ref:`NVS <nvs_api>` to link to NVS, and the same for ZMS.

Reviewer 2: Also, please add FCB to this section as well.

     -    .
     -    .
   * -    .
     - ATE_b2
     - ATE_c2
   * - ATE_a2
     - ATE_b1
     - ATE_c1
   * - ATE_a1
     - ATE_b0
     - ATE_c0
   * - ATE_a0
     - GC_done
     - GC_done
   * - Close (cyc=1)
     - Close (cyc=1)
     - Close (cyc=1)
   * - Empty (cyc=1)
     - Empty (cyc=2)
     - Empty (cyc=2)

Definition of each element in the sector
========================================

``Empty ATE:`` is written when erasing a sector (last position of the sector).

``Close ATE:`` is written when closing a sector (second to last position of the sector).

``GC_done ATE:`` is written to indicate that the next sector has been already garbage
collected. This ATE could be in any position of the sector.

``ID-ATE:`` are entries that contain a 32 bits Key and describe where the data is stored, its
size and its crc32

``Data:`` is the actual value associated to the ID-ATE

How does ZMS work?
******************

Mounting the Storage system
===========================

Mounting the storage starts by getting the flash parameters, checking that the file system
properties are correct (sector_size, sector_count ...) then calling the zms_init function to
make the storage ready.

> To mount the filesystem some elements in the zms_fs structure must be initialized.

Author: I have no idea how to do that (link to structure inside doxygen Documentation)

> To mount the NVS filesystem some elements in the zms_fs structure must be initialized.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To mount the filesystem some elements in the zms_fs structure must be initialized.
```
`NVS` is used multiple times in this document. The use in this location is inaccurate and can be skipped

Author: Fixed

.. code-block:: c

	struct zms_fs {
		/** File system offset in flash **/
		off_t offset;

		/** Storage system is split into sectors, each sector size must be multiple of
		 * erase-blocks if the device has erase capabilities
		 */
		uint32_t sector_size;
		/** Number of sectors in the file system */
		uint32_t sector_count;

		/** Flash device runtime structure */
		const struct device *flash_device;
	};

Initialization
==============

As ZMS has a fast-forward write mechanism, we must find the last sector and the last pointer of
the entry where it stopped the last time.
It must look for a closed sector followed by an open one, then within the open sector, it finds
(recover) the last written ATE (Allocation Table Entry).

> After that, it checks that the sector after this one is empty, or it will erase it.

Author: should be, it everywhere

ZMS ID-Data write
===================

To avoid rewriting the same data with the same ID again, it must look in all the sectors if the

> same ID exist then compares its data, if the data is identical no write is performed.

Author: Yes I was planning to do that because it optimizes the performance a lot in this case.
But I will do it in a separate PR as this is unrelated to this fixup

> same ID exist then compares its data, if the data is identical no write is performed.

Reviewer 4: Sure. Will be nice to have. (Also I don't know if it would make sense to have it as a runtime or ZMS instance parameter so that e.g. different callers can use it or not? At least I know that for the secure storage subsystem this better be disabled, but I am thinking of potential other uses of ZMS in parallel of that.)

If we must perform a write, then an ATE and Data (if not a delete) are written in the sector.
If the sector is full (cannot hold the current data + ATE) we have to move to the next sector,
garbage collect the sector after the newly opened one then erase it.
Data size that is smaller or equal to 8 bytes are written within the ATE.

ZMS ID/data read (with history)
===============================

By default it looks for the last data with the same ID by browsing through all stored ATEs from
the most recent ones to the oldest ones. If it finds a valid ATE with a matching ID it retrieves
its data and returns the number of bytes that were read.
If history count is provided that is different than 0, older data with same ID is retrieved.

ZMS free space calculation
==========================

ZMS can also return the free space remaining in the partition.
However, this operation is very time consuming and needs to browse all valid ATEs in all sectors
of the partition and for each valid ATE try to find if an older one exist.

> We do not recommend applications to use this function very often at runtime as it could slow
> very much the calling thread

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
It is not recommended for application to use this function often, as it is time consuming and could slow down the calling thread.
```
Just a suggestion. Trying to find a better alternative to "could slow very much the calling thread" which is not using a common English word-order...

					uint32_t metadata; /* Used to store metadata information
							    * such as storage version.
							    */
				};
			};
		};
	} __packed;

.. note:: The data CRC is checked only when the whole data of the element is read.
   The data CRC is not checked for a partial read, as it is computed for the complete set of data.

.. note:: Enabling the data CRC feature on a previously existing ZMS content without
   data CRC will make all existing data invalid.

.. _free-space:

Available space for user data (key-value pairs)
***********************************************

For both scenarios ZMS should have always an empty sector to be able to perform the garbage
collection.
So if we suppose that 4 sectors exist in a partition, ZMS will only use 3 sectors to store
Key-value pairs and keep always one (rotating sector) empty to be able to launch GC.

.. note:: The maximum single data length that could be written at once in a sector is 64K
   (This could change in future versions of ZMS)

Small data values
=================

For small data values (<= 8 bytes), the data is stored within the entry (ATE) itself and no data
is written at the top of the sector.

> ZMS has an entry size of 16 bytes which means that the maximum available space in a partition to

Author: Entry is only referring to the part stored at the bottom of the sector.
I never mentioned in this document "entry" to refer to the data part

> ZMS has an entry size of 16 bytes which means that the maximum available space in a partition to

Reviewer 4: But still this definition could at least be made explicit to avoid potential confusion?

> store data is computed in this scenario as :

Author: No the calculation is true for all values which size is <= 8 bytes

> store data is computed in this scenario as :

Author: Well I precised in the formula that this is the maximum available space for data.
But of course it will depend on the size of the data.
I will change the formula to make it more clear

.. math::

   \small\frac{(NUM\_SECTORS - 1) \times (SECTOR\_SIZE - (5 \times ATE\_SIZE))}{2}

Where:

``NUM_SECTOR:`` Total number of sectors

``SECTOR_SIZE:`` Size of the sector

``ATE_SIZE:`` 16 bytes

``(5 * ATE_SIZE):`` Reserved ATEs for header and delete items

For example for 4 sectors of 1024 bytes, free space for data is :math:`\frac{3 \times 944}{2} = 1416 \, \text{ bytes}`.

Large data values
=================

Large data values ( > 8 bytes) are stored separately at the top of the sector.
In this case it is hard to estimate the free available space as this depends on the size of
the data. But we can take into account that for N bytes of data (N > 8 bytes) an additional
16 bytes of ATE must be added at the bottom of the sector.

Let's take an example:

For a partition that has 4 sectors of 1024 bytes and for data size of 64 bytes.
Only 3 sectors are available for writes with a capacity of 944 bytes each.
Each Key-value pair needs an extra 16 bytes for ATE which makes it possible to store 11 pairs
in each sectors (:math:`\frac{944}{80}`).
Total data that could be stored in this partition for this case is :math:`11 \times 3 \times 64 = 2112 \text{ bytes}`

> .. _wear-leveling:

Reviewer 4: FYI, you don't need to define those when you only want to reference sections of your page from within the page itself. See e.g. [here](https://github.com/zephyrproject-rtos/zephyr/pull/76222/files#diff-aa3e5a0a44d82ae9e97891d29efb7f57a206b0804a1be69030403c5877495094R44) for an example.

This creates a global reference.
Which can be fine if it's properly named, e.g. prefixed by `zms_`. But with such a generic name it's not great.

Wear leveling
*************

This storage system is optimized for devices that do not require an erase.
Using storage systems that rely on an erase-value (NVS as an example) will need to emulate the
erase with write operations. This will cause a significant decrease in the life expectancy of

> these devices and will cause more delays for write operations and for initialization.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
these devices as well as more delays for write operations and initialization.
```
Why for initialization? :thinking:

Author: For empty devices, initialization needs to erase a sector

Reviewer 4: Maybe specify that it's only for the first initialization for empty devices then?

> ZMS introduces a cycle count mechanism that avoids emulating erase operation for these devices.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
ZMS introduces a cycle count mechanism that avoids emulating erase operations for these devices.
```

It also guarantees that every memory location is written only once for each cycle of sector write.

As an example, to erase a 4096 bytes sector on a non erasable device using NVS, 256 flash writes
must be performed (supposing that write-block-size=16 bytes), while using ZMS only 1 write of
16 bytes is needed. This operation is 256 times faster in this case.

Garbage collection operation is also adding some writes to the memory cell life expectancy as it

> is moving some blocks from one sector to another.

Author: That's the garbage collection operation, moving blocks of valid data from the old sector to the new sector => adding more write operations

> Garbage collection operation is also adding some writes to the memory cell life expectancy as it
> is moving some blocks from one sector to another.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The garbage collection operation also reduces the memory cell life expectancy as it makes write operations when moving blocks from one sector to another.
```

To make the garbage collector not affect the life expectancy of the device it is recommended
to dimension correctly the partition size. Its size should be the double of the maximum size of

> data (including extra headers) that could be written in the storage.

Author: headers is the right term to use here.

> data (including extra headers) that could be written in the storage.

Reviewer 4: Maybe that's another term to define for people that might not know?

For id/data pair with data > 8 bytes, effective_size is 16 bytes + sizeof(data)
Let's suppose that total_effective_size is the total size of the set of data that is written in
the storage and that the partition is well dimensioned (double of the effective size) to avoid
having the garbage collector moving blocks all the time.

The expected life of the device in minutes is computed as :

.. math::

   \small\frac{(SECTOR\_EFFECTIVE\_SIZE \times SECTOR\_NUMBER \times MAX\_NUM\_WRITES)}{(TOTAL\_EFFECTIVE\_SIZE \times WR\_MIN)}

Where:

``SECTOR_EFFECTIVE_SIZE``: is the size sector - header_size(80 bytes)

``SECTOR_NUMBER``: is the number of sectors

``MAX_NUM_WRITES``: is the life expectancy of the storage device in number of writes

``TOTAL_EFFECTIVE_SIZE``: Total effective size of the set of written data

``WR_MIN``: Number of writes of the set of data per minute

Features
********
ZMS has introduced many features compared to existing storage system like NVS and will evolve
from its initial version to include more features that satisfies new technologies requirements
such as low latency and bigger storage space.

Existing features
=================
Version1
--------

> - Supports non erasable devices (only one write operation to erase a sector)

Author: I have to think about another term, maybe "devices that do not require to be erased" ?

- Supports large partition size and sector size (64 bits address space)
- Supports large IDs width (32 bits) to store ID/Value pairs
- Small sized data ( <= 8 bytes) are stored in the ATE itself
- Built-in Data CRC32 (included in the ATE)
- Versionning of ZMS (to handle future evolution)
- Supports large write-block-size (Only for platforms that need this)

Future features
===============

- Add multiple format ATE support to be able to use ZMS with different ATE formats that satisfies
  requirements from application
- Add the possibility to skip garbage collector for some application usage where ID/value pairs
  are written periodically and do not exceed half of the partition size (ther is always an old
  entry with the same ID).
- Divide IDs into namespaces and allocate IDs on demand from application to handle collisions
  between IDs used by different subsystems or samples.

> - Add the possibility to retrieve the wear out value of the device based on the cycle count value

Author: using an entry that can be stored and updated once we wrap through all sectors
This is not implemented yet, but could be added through a CONFIG

- Add a recovery function that can recover a storage partition if something went wrong
- Add a library/application to allow migration from NVS entries to ZMS entries
- Add the possibility to force formatting the storage partition to the ZMS format if something

>   went wrong when mounting the storage.

Author: That's my roadmap. I could also add more features if users need them

ZMS and other storage systems in Zephyr
=======================================
This section describes ZMS in the wider context of storage systems in Zephyr (not full filesystems,
but simpler, non-hierarchical ones).
Today Zephyr includes at least two other systems that are somewhat comparable in scope and
functionality: :ref:`NVS <nvs_api>` and :ref:`FCB <fcb_api>`.
Which one to use in your application will depend on your needs and the hardware you are using,
and this section provides information to help make a choice.

- If you are using a non erasable technology device like RRAM or MRAM, :ref:`ZMS <zms_api>` is definitely the
  best fit for your storage subsystem as it is designed very well to avoid emulating erase for

>   these devices and replace it by a single write call.

Author: actually these devices do not have page erase, they emulate erase operations with large block writes
